Practicals 1-4 (#24)
HealthBioscienceIDEAS/Medical-Image-Registration-Short-Course: learners/setup.md

### Dataset
We provide a summary of the different datasets for each practical here. Datasets are described at the beginning of each practical. 

| Practical | Dataset |
|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| Practical 1 | [TCIA CT-vs-PET-Ventilation-Imaging](https://www.cancerimagingarchive.net/collection/ct-vs-pet-ventilation-imaging/) |
| Practical 2 | Lung MRI slice |
| Practical 3 | Head CT and MRI slices |
| Practical 4 | Lung MRI slices |
| Practical 5 | Dataset 5 |
| Practical 6 | Dataset 6 |

## Python Setup

### Installing Python

For Python beginners, we recommend installing miniconda [here](https://www.anaconda.com/download/success).
This provides a basic installation of Python and conda, which allows us to create virtual environments.
Once this has been installed, you should be able to open a terminal.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: spoiler

### Opening a Terminal

* Windows: Click Start > Search for Anaconda Prompt > Click to Open
* macOS: Launchpad > Other Application > Terminal
* Linux: Open a terminal window

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

### Creating an environment

> Once you have opened the terminal, move to the location of the course files (use `cd` and `ls` commands - have a quick look [here](https://tutorials.codebar.io/command-line/introduction/tutorial.html) if you've never used the command line before). 

Reviewer: Probably worth putting in the commands for an example directory and then putting the output of what the `ls` should look like.

Author: TODO: can't cd or ls in anaconda prompt in windows

Author: also for windows, ls doesn't work - can only use cd. equivalent of ls is dir

Author: See commit 0c66917. what i do is I ask people to download the zip file on the Desktop directly (which should be common to both windows and mac). the command 'cd Desktop' should work for both.

You need to be in the directory of the unzipped folder with the course material and see the `python-environment.yml` file.

``` bash
conda create --name ideas-reg -c conda-forge python=3.12

conda activate ideas-reg

> conda env update --name ideas-reg --file=python-environment.yml

Reviewer: I had some issues with this yml file. The bits at the end are a hash for the Windows version of the package. For example: 
aom=3.9.1=he0c23c2_0
should just be aom=3.9.1 ,as the he02c23c2_0 is a hash that tells you the Windows is the right kind of file. You can see that this [hash value changes](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/aom/files) depending on the operating system. 

I suspect that this file was created through some kind of conda list command or something like that. In truth, I think we just need to make sure we got the core packages that we used locked on the right version and the dependencies should take care of themselves.

Reviewer: It may be worth looking over https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html#create-env-file-manually if you haven't already

Reviewer: As discussed with email, the new enviornment created by
```bash
conda env create -y --file python-environment.yml
```
works well.

Author: i modified the .yml file in the link to the zip file with the course material.

```

> We created a conda environment from the existing `python-environment.yml` file. This environment has been tested on all the tutorials and should help avoiding issues when running them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We created a conda environment from the existing `ideas-reg-environment.yml` file. This environment has been tested on all the tutorials and should help avoiding issues when running them.
```

### VSCode

If you do not already have a Python IDE installed, we recommend using VSCode. 
It is very convenient as it allows us to open both Python scripts and Jupyter notebooks in the same interface.
You can download it [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/download).

We recommend looking at the following instructions to get started:

* [Python tutorial](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/python-tutorial)
* [Instructions for Jupyter notebooks](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/datascience/jupyter-notebooks)

## Software Setup

### ITK-SNAP

> ITK-SNAP started in 1999 with SNAP (SNake Automatic Partitioning) and developed by Paul Yushkevich with the guidance of Guido Gerig.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ITK-SNAP started in 1999 with SNAP (SNake Automatic Partitioning) and was first developed by Paul Yushkevich with the guidance of Guido Gerig.
```

It is open-source software distributed under the GNU General Public License.

> It is written in C++ and it leverages the Insight Segmentation and Registration Toolkit (ITK) library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is written in C++ and leverages the [Insight Segmentation and Registration Toolkit (ITK)](https://itk.org/).
```
